---
title: Time Management
date: 2023-05-01 
categories: [Life skills, General]
tags: [time management, life skills, course writeup]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

I recently attended a workshop on time management that was ran by a local job agency, it was quite interesting and has inspired me to give an overview from it.

## Overview

Timekeeping is simply the practice of being able to get done what's important within the correct time frame and being where you need to be when you need to be there.

Being able to manage to do this helps to relieve stress, get more work done and makes you more reliable, to both employers and friends. All of these combined can help to open more doors in your professional and private lives.

Below I've written up about two techniques from the course that I feel are the most effective.

## Techniques
### Routine
The biggest one when you're starting your journey in time management is to have some things as routine. Some people will suggest that you have to have everything on an exact down-to-the-minute schedule, however for most people this is unfeasible. Rather than this, I would recommend basing your routine off of one or two anchor points and then working everything else around them. The ones most studies recommended for this purpose are eating and sleeping.

If you have a constant wake up time then your body will adjust the time that you need to go to sleep at naturally. It will help to boost your alertness, give an overall boost to your working ability and will help with falling asleep at night.

If you're able to get your eating in line with your schedule it can also help. By eating to a schedule you can get control of your glucose levels and in turn improve concentration and mood regulation, which in turn benefits you in many ways.

Outside of these two, having time scheduled during the day for work, time for breaks and some time to be physically active are also major components, however they are ones that can be built up after you have sleep and food sorted out.

For myself, I have a timer on my phone which alerts me as to when I should be eating and I put it on the other side of the room when I sleep to encourage me out of bed to turn the alarm off, as getting out of bed is often the hardest thing about getting up on time. Note : There will be an article on how to improve sleep coming out further down the line.

If you want to create it as a habit, then the use of "don't break the chain" type apps and similar concepts can be used. These use the streak concept that is so popular in social media to keep you coming back, where you get a dopamine rush from starting a streak that gets larger the longer the streak goes on until it becomes a habit.

### Checklists
Keeping a checklist of tasks to do is another way of being able to manage your time better. However this is often one that gets overused and used in the wrong types of ways, people will have too many tasks, and the tasks will be too large to easily complete, leading to burnout and a general unwillingness and demotivation to complete any task.

The best way of having a checklist is to have a few tasks that are bits of a bigger task or small things that can be completed easily.

One of the main methodologies for tasks lists is the Eisenhower matrix, named after the American president with the same name.

This matrix is a graph comprised of how urgent a task is and how important a task is. Depending on these factors it lays in a certain quadrant which decides what to do with the task.

If a task is of high importance and is urgent then you do it right away, it it's important but not urgent then you schedule it for later on, if it's urgent but not important then you delegate it to someone else, and if it is neither then you trash the task and don't do it.

Following this and ordering your checklist by priority will greatly help to reduce the number of items in your checklist, thus making them more manageable.

One thing I tend to do differently however is that I put one task at the start of the day's checklist of high priority which is actually quite simple and easy to do before moving onto the important things. I do this as it gives a sense of satisfaction knowing that you've managed to complete a task, and gives you a confidence boost going forward in the day.
